# Source: https://www.parliament.gov.za/ (Parliament of South Africa (Afrikaans press releases))

Parliament, Tuesday, 15 April 2026 – A multi-party South African parliamentary delegation, led by the Speaker of the National Assembly, Ms Thoko Didiza, has arrived in Istanbul, Türkiye, for the 152nd Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) Assembly. The five-day Assembly, taking place from 15 to 19 April 2026, is a key global platform for parliamentary diplomacy, where legislatures meet to discuss shared challenges and collective solutions. The 152nd Assembly is convened under the theme: “Nurturing hope, securing peace and ensuring justice for future generations.” South Africa, through its Parliament, uses the IPU to advance international cooperation and to ensure that the country’s national perspectives are reflected in global parliamentary processes. The other members of the delegations include the Deputy Chairperson of the National Council of Provinces, Mr Poobalan Govender. The multi-party delegation also includes Ms Dorries Mpapane, Mr Mikateko Mahlaule and Ms Jane Mananiso of the African National Congress; Mr Baxolile Nodada of the Democratic Alliance; Ms Mmabatho Mokoena-Zondi of the uMkhonto Wesizwe Party; Ms Nqobile Mhlongo of the Economic Freedom Fighters and Mr Nhlanhla Hadebe of the Inkatha Freedom Party. The delegation will participate in all key structures of the Assembly, including the General Debate and meetings of the Standing Committees and the Governing Council. Speaker Didiza is scheduled to deliver South Africa’s national address during the General Debate, during which she will reflect on the country’s priorities of peace, development and inclusive governance. The delegation will also engage in the Forum of Women Parliamentarians and the Forum of Young Parliamentarians, which promote gender equality, youth participation and inclusive governance. Formal proceedings will start tomorrow, Wednesday, 15 April 2026 and will include, among other things, a meeting of the Forum of Women Parliamentarians. The meeting will focus on advancing gender equality and women’s participation in parliamentary processes. The day will close with the inaugural ceremony. On Thursday, the Assembly will hold its General Debate during which Speaker Didiza will deliver South Africa’s address. In other sessions, the Standing Committees on Peace and International Security and Sustainable Development will debate post-conflict peacebuilding and a fair, sustainable global economy. The debate will include issues of protectionism, tariffs and corporate tax avoidance. Other important meetings include those of the Task Force on the peaceful resolution of the war in Ukraine, the Committee on Middle East Questions and the Forum of Young Parliamentarians. On Friday, the General Debate will continue, while important meetings will discuss global conflict and sustainable development. A special session on advancing the two-State solution for Israel and Palestine is scheduled to discuss pathways to peace in the Middle East. Meetings of the Standing Committee on Peace and International Security and the Standing Committee on Sustainable Development are also scheduled for the day. On Saturday, the Assembly will also consider institutional matters alongside other global issues. A hearing is scheduled with candidates for the position of the IPU's new Secretary General. Further meetings are scheduled on issues such as the role of parliaments in ending statelessness in the Committee to Promote Respect for International Humanitarian Law, while the meeting of the Standing Committee on Democracy and Human Rights will debate implementing the parliamentary mandate on artificial intelligence. On Sunday, the Governing Council will elect the new IPU Secretary-General and consider various reports on activities of the IPU committees and other bodies. The day will culminate in the adoption of resolutions to mark the closure of the 152nd Assembly. *The IPU is the global organisation of national parliaments that facilitates parliamentary diplomacy and empowers parliaments and parliamentarians to promote peace, democracy, human rights, gender equality, youth empowerment, climate action and sustainable development worldwide. Founded in 1889, the IPU brings together 183 Member Parliaments and 15 Associate Members, with its headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland. The full programme for the 152 Assembly is available here . For media interviews with the leader of the delegation and Speaker of the National Assembly, Ms Thoko Didiza, please contact Ms Malentsoe Magwagwa via WhatsApp on 081 716 5824. ISSUED BY THE PARLIAMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Enquiries: Moloto Mothapo, Parliament Spokesperson
