# Source: https://www.sefaria.org/texts/Tanakh (Sefaria — Tanakh (biblical Hebrew))

Tanakh | Sefaria Library Skip to main content Sign Up Site Language English עברית Library Voices Developers More from Sefaria › Log in Sign up Site Language English עברית New Additions Help Tanakh Torah (The Five Books of Moses) Genesis Creation, the beginning of mankind, and stories of the patriarchs and matriarchs. Exodus The Israelites’ enslavement in Egypt, miraculous redemption, the giving of the Torah, and building of the Mishkan (Tabernacle). Leviticus Laws of sacrificial worship in the Mishkan (Tabernacle), ritual purity, and other topics like agriculture, ethics, and holidays. Numbers Wanderings of the Israelites in the desert, census, rebellion, spies and war, interspersed with laws. Deuteronomy Moses’ final speeches, recalling events of the desert, reviewing old laws, introducing new ones, and calling for faithfulness to God. Prophets Joshua The Israelites enter, conquer, and settle Israel under the leadership of Joshua. Judges Cycles of sin, foreign oppression, repentance, and redemption through leaders appointed by God. I Samuel The prophet Samuel, the advent of monarchy with the reign of Saul, and the rise of a young David. II Samuel King David’s triumphs and challenges as he establishes a united kingdom with Jerusalem as its capital. I Kings Solomon’s kingship, construction of the Temple, a schism in the kingdom, and Elijah the Prophet. II Kings Stories and miracles of the prophet Elisha, the decline of Israel’s kingdoms, and the Temple’s destruction. Isaiah Criticism of religious corruption, calls for change, and descriptions of a utopian future. Jeremiah Warnings of Jerusalem’s destruction and demands for repentance, largely rejected by the people, some of whom torture and persecute him. Ezekiel Dramatic symbolism conveying rebuke or hope, and visions of a future Temple. Hosea Rebuke of Israel for abandoning God, comparing their relationship to that of unfaithful lovers. Joel A locust plague, a call to repent, and a promise of judgement for Israel’s oppressors. Amos Condemnation of oppression and arrogance in the nations and Israel, and a call for reform. Obadiah The shortest book in Tanakh, at just 21 verses, predicting the downfall of the kingdom of Edom. Jonah A great fish swallows Jonah when he tries to escape his mission of prophecy, and Jonah repents. Micah Berating of Israel and its leadership for insincere ritual worship, and calls for justice and kindness. Nahum A celebratory prophecy about the downfall of the Assyrian empire, an oppressor of Israel. Habakkuk Charging God to explain the unjust success of the Babylonians, God’s response, and a prayer. Zephaniah Warnings of the destruction God will wreck on the unfaithful and calls for justice and humility. Haggai Urgent calls to build the Second Temple and descriptions of its future glory. Zechariah Symbolic visions of redemption, explained by angels, and descriptions of the end of days. Malachi Criticism of disingenuous ritual worship and descriptions of God’s future blessings. Writings Psalms Poems of despair, hope, gratitude, and supplication to God, attributed to David and others. Proverbs Guidance for living a wise, moral, and righteous life, in the form of poems and short statements. Job Satan convinces God to strike a righteous man with tragedy, spurring conversations about suffering. Song of Songs Poetic conversations of two lovers, traditionally read as a metaphor for God and Israel. Ruth A Moabite widow remains loyal to her mother-in-law and to Israel, embarking on a new beginning. Lamentations Laments of Jerusalem’s destruction, grappling with theological explanations. Ecclesiastes An exploration of the meaning of life, reckoning with death, futility, and purpose. Esther Esther becomes queen of Persia and foils a plot to destroy the Jews, establishing the Purim holiday. Daniel A Jewish advisor to Babylonian kings interprets dreams and miraculously escapes danger. Ezra Rebuilding the Temple after decades of exile and religious revival led by Ezra the scribe. Nehemiah Rebuilding Jerusalem’s walls and the nation’s commitment to observe the commandments. I Chronicles Recounts of events in the Torah and early Prophets, focusing on King David. II Chronicles Recounts of events in the Prophets, from Solomon through the First Temple’s destruction. Targum Translations of Tanakh into Aramaic, originally transmitted orally and mostly committed to writing between the first and eighth centuries CE Aramaic Targum Targumim on the books of Writings, ranging in style and date of composition. Onkelos Primary Targum on the Torah accepted in the Talmud as authoritative; read publicly in synagogues in talmudic times and still today by Yemenite Jews. Tafsir Rasag Rav Saadia Gaon’s influential 10th-century translation of the Torah into Arabic using Hebrew characters. Targum Jerusalem Pieces of Targum on scattered phrases throughout the Torah. Targum Jonathan Primary Targum on the books of the Prophets, read publicly in synagogues in talmudic times and still today by Yemenite Jews. Neofiti Targum on the Torah that incorporates expansions on biblical text, compiled in Israel. Rishonim on Tanakh Rashi Most widely-read biblical commentary, compiled in the 11th-century, explaining the simple meaning of the text with interpretive elaborations. Ibn Ezra 12th-century commentary focusing on the simple meaning of the text and incorporating grammar and linguistics. Ramban 13th-century commentary weaving together biblical interpretation with law, philosophy, and mysticism. Abarbanel 15th-century commentary on the Torah and Prophets, opening each section with a list of questions on the biblical text. Ateret Zekeinim First completed work of the Abarbanel, composed around 1470, commenting on passages in chapters 23 and 24 in Exodus. Ba&#x27;al HaTurim 14th-century short introductions to biblical passages by the author of the Tur, often containing gematria and linguistic devices. Bartenura on Torah 15th-century supercommentary to Rashi’s Torah commentary, attributed to the Mishnah commentator Rav Ovadiah Bartenura. Bekhor Shor 12th-century commentary by a French Tosafist, focusing on literal interpretations and offering rational explanations of miraculous biblical events. Chizkuni 13th-century commentary presenting literal interpretations of the author’s predecessors and presenting new ideas. Da&#x27;at Zekenim Commentary composed by the Tosafists in the 12th and 13th centuries, primarily in France and Germany. Eshkol HaKofer on Ruth 15th-century commentary by R. Abraham Saba, rewritten from memory after the author was forced to abandon his original work before fleeing Portugal. Ezra ben Solomon on Song of Songs 13th-century kabbalistic commentary of Rabbi Ezra ben Shlomo of Gerona, selected, translated, and annotated by Seth Brody in the 20th century. Gevia Kesef 14th-century philosophical and exegetical work by Rabbi Yosef ibn Kaspi, mostly related to the book of Genesis. Hadar Zekenim on Torah Torah commentary compiled anonymously from the writings of Franco-German scholars in the 12th-13th centuries (Ba’alei HaTosafot). Immanuel of Rome on Proverbs 14th-century commentary that offers linguistic and grammatical explanations and philosophical perspectives. Immanuel of Rome on Esther 14th-century commentary that offers linguistic and grammatical explanations as well as philosophical perspectives. Imrei Da&#x27;at on Proverbs Late 13th-century commentary on Proverbs by Rabbi Zerahiah ben Shealtiel Ḥen, incorporating linguistic and philosophical analysis Joseph ibn Yahya 16th-century commentary on Writings by a student of the Rashba. Kitzur Ba&#x27;al HaTurim Abridgement of the 14th-century Baal HaTurim Torah commentary. Mashmia Yeshuah 15th-century treatise of the Abarbanel examining prophecies throughout Tanakh that speak of redemption. Meiri on Psalms Commentary by 14th-century scholar R. Menachem Meiri, first published in the early-20th century Minchat Shai 17th-century commentary focusing on textual variants, cantillation marks, and vowelization of biblical text. Paaneach Raza 13th-century commentary by one of the French Tosafists explaining the simple meaning of the text while weaving in gematria and word schemes. Rabbeinu Bahya Fourteenth-century commentary incorporating literal explanations along with allegorical, philosophical, and mystical interpretations. Rabbeinu Chananel 11th-century commentary reconstructed from citations in later Torah commentators and fragments of manuscripts discovered in the Cairo Genizah. Radak Popular 13th-century commentary focusing on the simple meaning of the text and incorporating grammar and philosophy. Ralbag 14th-century commentary defining words, explaining passages, and demonstrating morals, incorporating law, philosophy, math, and astronomy. Ralbag Beur HaMilot One of three sections of Ralbag’s Torah commentary, focusing on literal definitions. Rashbam Popular 12th-century commentary by Rashi’s grandson focusing on the simple meaning of the text. Riva on Torah Supercommentary on Rashi’s Torah commentary compiled by one of the Tosafists in the 13th or 14th century. Rosh on Torah 14th-century commentary attributed to the legal codifier Rabbi Asher ben Yechiel. Saadia Gaon 10th-century commentary incorporating essays on legal and philosophical topics loosely connected to biblical verses. Second Version of Ibn Ezra Second commentary of the Ibn Ezra on the Book of Esther, with overlapping themes to those of his first commentary but with many new interpretations. Sforno Commentary by 16th-century Italian rabbi and physician. Shelom Esther 16th-century commentary on the Book of Esther by Rabbi Yitzchak ben Mordechai Gershon. Tikvat Enosh on Job Late 13th-century commentary on Job by R. Zerahiah ben Shealtiel Ḥen, emphasizing linguistic analysis and metaphorical interpretation Toledot Yitzchak on Torah 16th-century commentary combining simple and allegorical interpretations by the uncle of Rav Yosef Karo based on sermons he delivered. Tur HaArokh 14th-century commentary by the author of the Tur with summaries of traditional interpretations, particularly those of the Ramban. Tzror HaMor on Torah 16th-century commentary with literal explanations as well as mystical ones based on the teachings of the Zohar. Acharonim on Tanakh Aderet Eliyahu 18th-century commentary on the Torah by the Vilna Gaon. Aderet Eliyahu (Rabbi Yosef Chaim) 19th-century commentary on select verses from the Torah and haftarot by the Ben Ish Chai, with elaborative and mystical interpretations. Ahavat Yehonatan 18th-century commentary on the haftarot, written by Rabbi Jonathan Eybeschutz. Alon Bakhut on Lamentations 18th-century commentary on the book of Lamentations, written by Rabbi Jonathan Eybeschutz. Alshekh on Torah R. Moses Alshekh&#x27;s commentary on the Torah, also known as Torat Moshe Alshich 16th-century commentary highlighting the moral and religious lessons embedded in every biblical phrase. Avi Ezer 18th-century supercommentary to Ibn Ezra&#x27;s Torah commentary. Ba&#x27;alei Brit Avram Mystical commentary compiled by a student of Rav Chaim Vital in the 17th century and first published in the 19th century. Beit HaLevi on Torah 19th-century analytical commentary on Genesis and part of Exodus by Rabbi Yosef Dov Soloveitchik. Chanukat HaTorah A mystical commentary compiled in the 19th century from teachings of Rabbi Avraham Yehoshua Heschel, a leading 17th-century Polish rabbi Chatam Sofer on Torah 19th-century commentary of the Chatam Sofer on the Torah and haftarot published by his grandson. Chida Series of 18th-century commentaries of Rav Chaim Yosef David Azulai, incorporating rabbinic and kabbalistic teachings. Divrei David on Rashi 17th-century supercommentary on Rashi’s Torah commentary by R. David HaLevi Segal, author of the Turei Zahav, or Taz, on the Shulchan Arukh Em LaMikra 19th-century commentary by R. Elijah Benamozegh, incorporating philology, archaeology, and history. Eretz Chemdah 19th-century collection of sermons on the Torah readings and haftarot by Rabbi Meir Leibush Weisser, known by his acronym "Malbim." Gur Aryeh 16th-century supercommentary to Rashi’s Torah commentary by the Maharal of Prague. HaKtav VeHaKabalah 19th-century commentary by an opponent of Reform Judaism meant to demonstrate how the oral tradition is derived from the biblical text. Haamek Davar Influential 19th-century commentary of the Netziv based on classes he gave on the weekly Torah portion in the Volozhin Yeshiva. Harchev Davar The Netziv’s elaborations upon his Haamek Davar. Iggeret Shmuel on Ruth 16th-century commentary on the Book of Ruth, by Samuel de Uçeda, that includes interpretations from talmudic times all the way to the author’s contemporaries. Imrei Yosher 19th-century commentaries on the five megillot by the author of the Netivot Mishpat. Keli Chemdah on Torah Early-20th-century commentary by Rabbi Meir Dan Plotsky with lengthy and complex discussions of halakhic topics Kli Yakar 17th-century commentary based in part on sermons delivered by the author, Rabbi Shlomo Ephraim of Luntshits. Lechem Dim&#x27;ah on Eikhah 16th-century commentary on the book of Lamentations. Levush HaOrah 16th-century supercommentary on Rashi’s Torah commentary. Malbim 19th-century commentary known for its assumption that every word in Tanakh carries unique meaning, with no synonyms or repetitions. Maskil LeDavid 18th-century super-commentary on Rashi on the Torah by Rabbi David Pardo, an Italian Rabbi and poet. Mechokekei Yehudah R. Yehuda Leib Krinsky&#x27;s two-part supercommentary on Ibn Ezra&#x27;s Torah commentary Megalleh Amukkot on Torah 16th-century Torah commentary by the kabbalist R. Natan Nota Spira Mekhir Yayin on Esther First work authored by Rema, written in the 16th century as a commentary comparing the plot of the book of Esther to a person’s journey through life Menot HaLevi on Esther Commentary on the book of Esther by Rabbi Shlomo HaLevi Alkabetz. Meshekh Chokhmah 20th-century commentary of Rav Meir Simcha of Dvinsk, which he started writing as a teenager. Metzudat David 18th-century classic commentary on Prophets and Writings explaining verses in clear and simple language, primarily based on the Radak’s commentary. Metzudat Zion Work originally composed together with the Metzudat David as one work, explaining individual words. Minchat Ani on Torah 19th-century collection of homilies by Rabbi Yaakov Ettlinger, a leading German rabbi and author of the Arukh LaNer Talmud commentary Minei Targuma on Torah 18th-century commentary interpreting and expanding upon Targum Onkelos. Mizrachi 16th-century supercommentary on Rashi’s Torah commentary, in part defending Rashi from critiques of later commentators like the Ramban. Nachalat Ya&#x27;akov Early 19th-century compilation of essays on the Torah by R. Yaakov Lorberbaum Netinah LaGer 19th-century commentary on Targum Onkelos, an Aramaic translation of the Torah. Od Yosef Chai; Derashot Early 20th-century work by R. Yosef Chaim with Torah commentary that draws on traditional rabbinic sources and kabbalistic teachings. Ohel Ya&#x27;akov on Torah Collection of the 18th-century Dubner Maggid’s homiletical teachings on the Torah Ohev Ger 19th-century academic work of the Shadal analyzing the methods of Targum Onkelos and presenting its textual variants. Ohr Chadash 16th-century commentary on the book of Esther by Maharal Or HaChaim 18th-century Torah commentary incorporating mysticism, originating in Morocco and seen as an essential work by the European founders of chasidism. Pardes Yosef Early 20th-century Torah commentary by Rabbi Yosef Patzanovski Rav Hirsch on Torah Seminal 19th-century German commentary by R. Samson Raphael Hirsch expressing his belief in the interconnectedness of Torah and civilization Reggio on Torah 19th-century commentary on the five books of the Torah by a scientifically oriented Italian scholar. Shadal 19th-century commentary by a leading figure in the Jewish enlightenment Siftei Chakhamim 17th-century supercommentary on Rashi, often beginning sections by identifying the textual difficulties that made Rashi’s comments necessary. Siftei Kohen on Torah Early-17th-century kabbalistic Torah commentary by Rabbi Mordechai Kohen Tevat Gome 18th-century commentary by the author of the Pri Megadim, a supercommentary on major Shulchan Arukh commentaries. Tiferet Yehonatan on Torah Torah commentary consisting of short homiletical discourses written by the 18th-century scholar Rabbi Jonathan Eybeschutz Torah Temimah Early 20h-century encyclopedia of the passages in rabbinic literature relevant to each biblical verse accompanied by brief explanations. Tzafnat Pa&#x27;neach on Torah 20th-century commentary of the Rogatchover Gaon with a focus on analysis of biblical text through a legal lens. Tze&#x27;enah Ure&#x27;enah English translation of a popular 17th-century Yiddish work on the weekly Torah portions, haftarot, and megillot Yeriot Shlomo on Torah 16th-century supercommentary on the Mizrachi supercommentary on Rashi’s Torah commentary. Yesha Elohim on Esther 16th-century commentary on the book of Esther with a focus on highlighting God’s role in the story Modern Commentary on Tanakh Avraham Remer 20th-century commentaries on early Prophets by a student of Rav Tzvi Yehuda Kook, highlighting the text’s contemporary relevance. Birkat Asher on Torah 21st-century Torah commentary by the editor of the Shmirat Shabbat KeHilkhatah, with a focus on elucidating Rashi’s commentary. Cassuto on Exodus Early 20th-century commentary incorporating archeology, ancient Semitic languages, and literary tools. Cassuto on Genesis Mid-twentieth-century commentary incorporating archeology, ancient Semitic languages, and literary tools. Chibbah Yeteirah on Torah 20th-century commentary of Rav Yehuda Herzl Henkin, a leading figure in the Religious Zionist movement. David Zvi Hoffmann on Exodus Commentary based on lectures that R. Hoffmann delivered at the Rabbinical Seminary of Berlin during the late 19th century David Zvi Hoffmann on Leviticus Commentary based on lectures that R. Hoffmann delivered at the Rabbinical Seminary of Berlin during the late 19th century Depths of Yonah 21st-century English commentary on the book of Jonah authored by Rabbi Chaim Jachter together with his son, Binyamin. From David to Destruction 21st-century English commentary on the Book of Kings by Rabbi Chaim Jachter. Jonathan Sacks R. Sacks&#x27;s writings on the Torah, including his series Covenant and Conversation and companion volumes of essays Karati Bekhol Lev 21st-century collection of Hebrew essays on the weekly Torah portion that draws from a wide range of Jewish and secular sources. Megillat Ruth; From Chaos to Kingship 21st-century commentary on the book of Ruth by Rabbi Chaim Jachter. Moses; A Human Life 21st-century portrait of the biblical Moses’s inner world by Dr. Avivah Zornberg, drawing on traditional commentaries and psychoanalytic sources. Nechama Leibowitz 20th-century collection of worksheets with questions on the Torah and traditional commentators created by a pioneering educator and scholar. Redeeming Relevance 21st-century compilation of essays by Rabbi Francis Nataf suggesting innovative ways to look at events of the Torah. Sefer Daniel; Opportunity in Exile 21st-century English commentary on the Book of Daniel by Rabbi Chaim Jachter, incorporating questions and insights from his students at Torah Academy of Bergen County. Steinsaltz Translation and commentary on each of the books in the Hebrew Bible. The Early Prophets, by Everett Fox The Five Books of Moses, by Everett Fox Everett Fox’s essays expanding upon his 20th-century Bible translation, a work designed to draw the reader into the world of the Bible through the power of its language. The Kehot Chumash; A Chasidic Commentary 21st-century commentary from Chabad House Publications The Torah; A Women&#x27;s Commentary 21st-century collection of essays and commentaries published by Women of Reform Judaism and CCAR Press Tribal Lands 21st-century English book examining the connections between the personalities of the 12 sons of Jacob and the territories that each tribe later inherited.
