# Source: https://www.benindiaspora.com/ (Béninoise cultural / education portal)

FAQs See more FAQs How do I transfer to another registrar such as GoDaddy? Yes, you can transfer your domain to any registrar or hosting company once you have purchased it. Since domain transfers are a manual process, it can take up to 5 days to transfer the domain. Domains purchased with payment plans are not eligible to transfer until all payments have been made. Please remember that our 30-day money back guarantee is void once a domain has been transferred. For transfer instructions to GoDaddy, please click here . How do I get the domain after the purchase? Once you purchase the domain we will push it into an account for you at our registrar, NameBright.com, we will then send you an email with your NameBright username and password. In most cases access to the domain will be available within one to two hours of purchase, however access to domains purchased after business hours will be available within the next business day. What comes with the domain name? Nothing else is included with the purchase of the domain name. Our registrar NameBright.com does offer email packages for a yearly fee, however you will need to find hosting and web design services on your own. Do you offer payment plans? Yes we offer payment plans for up to 12 months. See details . How do I keep my personal information private? If you wish the domain ownership information to be private, add WhoIs Privacy Protection to your domain. This hides your personal information from the general public. To add privacy protection to your domain, do so within your registrar account. NameBright offers WhoIs Privacy Protection for free for the first year, and then for a small fee for subsequent years. Whois information is not updated immediately. It typically takes several hours for Whois data to update, and different registrars are faster than others. Usually your Whois information will be fully updated within two days. See more FAQs --> See more FAQs -->
