# Source: https://www.newvision.co.ug/ (New Vision — Uganda news)

KAMPALA - President Yoweri Museveni has launched a renewed effort to combat corruption, emphasising the need for citizen involvement in holding leaders accountable. Speaking through his Special Presidential Assistant on Anti-Corruption, Rebecca Atwine, during the Citizens&rsquo; Forum Against Corruption Uganda at the office in Naguru in Kampala on April 14, 2026, Museveni stressed that corruption undermines national development, service delivery and public trust, particularly affecting initiatives such as the Parish Development Model and Operation Wealth Creation programmes. Atwine highlighted the government's commitment to fighting corruption, as articulated in successive NRM manifestos. &ldquo;President Museveni stressed that corruption undermines national development, service delivery, and public trust,&rdquo; she said, urging citizens to join the fight against corruption. Museveni called on citizens to demand accountability from leaders and report corruption cases to anti-corruption agencies. &ldquo;Individual failure to act against corruption is a collective failure for all citizens,&rdquo; he said, referencing Article 17 (1) i of the Constitution of Uganda, which states that combating corruption is a duty of every citizen. The President emphasised the importance of grassroots accountability in wealth creation projects to ensure transparency and impact. He proposed a multi-pronged approach, including digitisation of services, enhanced public engagement and targeted interventions in corruption-prone sectors. Atwine noted that integrity issues must be confronted to redirect Ugandans' innovation and ingenuity away from manipulating legal and administrative processes that undermine accountability. This, she said, will enable fair and equitable utilisation of government resources, leading to better leadership and a more progressive Uganda. Museveni's anti-corruption drive also emphasises the critical role of the youth in demanding accountability. The government aims to create a corruption-free society, aligning with the NRM's ten-point programme. 'Use music, films to fight corruption' Seasoned musician Daniel Kazibwe, also known as Ragga Dee, urged fellow artists to create impactful dramas and songs to raise awareness about corruption in Uganda. The chairperson of the National Cultural Forum said music is a powerful tool to educate the public about the vice and its effects. &ldquo;Artists have a responsibility to use their platforms to speak against corruption,&rdquo; Ragga Dee said. The Special Presidential Assistant on Anti-Corruption, Rebecca Atwine, addressing the participants of Citizens Forum Against Corruption Uganda at Nagulu in Kampala on Tuesday. (Credit: Isaac Nuwagaba)
